# Docker Image

Images are layers, where each layer adds something else to the image. 

The order of the layer matters. 

We usually start with a parent image this includes the OS.
The next layers can be the source code and dependencies. 

### Parent Image
You can get the parent image from [dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/). 

To get the image you can do `docker pull image_name`

These can have different tags which are different versions of the docker image for example different OS or different decency versions 


### Dockerfile
This is the way to create the docker image, it is a set of instructions to docker so it knows how to create the image.

1. `FROM` The first thing is the parent image for this example I want to the parent image to be python3.9. 

	```Dockerfile
	FROM python:3.9

	```

	This will either pull this from docker hub or use locally if you have it already installed. 


2. `WORKDIR` The second layer is the WORKDIR this sets the working directory for any `RUN`, `CMD`, `ENTRYPOINT`, `COPY`, and `ADD` instructions that follow it. 

	It sets the working directory to the specified path. If the directory doesn't exist, Docker creates it.


	```Dockerfile
	FROM python:3.9

	WORKDIR /app
	```
	
3. `COPY` The third layer is copy this copies files from the host to the docker container. 
	
	```Dockerfile
	FROM python:3.9
	
	WORKDIR /app
	
	COPY python/hello_world ./hello_world
	```
	The first input in copy is the host and the second is the destination
	
4. `RUN` This is used to run thing in the terminal for example to install dependencies. 

	```Dockerfile
	FROM python:3.9
	
	WORKDIR /app
	
	COPY python/hello_world ./hello_world
	
	RUN hello_world/requirements.txt
	
	```
	
	As this is the image we use the run instruction to download the dependencies, but never to run the application. Because we are not trying to run the image while building it. 
	

5. `CMD` Instead of run this runs when the container begins to run. This is an array of strings 
	
	```Dockerfile
	FROM python:3.9
	
	WORKDIR /app
	
	COPY python/hello_world ./hello_world
	
	RUN hello/requirements.txt
	
	CMD["python", "hello_world/main.py"]	
	
	
	```
	
	
6. `EXPOSE` This allows you to allow the port to be use from example an api. This is only used when you are running this through docker desktop, when doing it on the terminal you map it manually.

	```Dockerfile
	FROM python:3.9
	
	WORKDIR /app
	
	COPY python/hello_world ./hello_world
	
	RUN hello/requirements.txt
	
	EXPOSE 9000
	
	CMD["python", "hello_world/main.py"]
	```



---
### Docker Build

To build this docker image you run 

`-t` means tag which can be the name of that build

`docker build -t name $dockerfile_location`




### Custom docker file location

Let's say we have this file structure

```
| Root
| - src
| | - main.py
| | - cli.py
| - resources
| | - videos
| | | - video1.mp4
| | | - video2.mp4
| | - docker
| | | - Dockerfile

```

and we want to run `Dockerfile` , by default docker dosn't allow you to access the files above the parent so you would have to do this: 


```
| Root
| - src
| | - main.py
| | - cli.py
| - resources
| | - videos
| | | - video1.mp4
| | | - video2.mp4
| - Dockerfile

```

but this is not clean and in a large project where you might have multiple docker files it might be confusing. 

A better solution is to keep the same project stucture as the first one and in the run script replace 

`docker build -t img_name .`

with : 

`docker build -t img_name -f docker/Dockerfile .`

`-f `: Is used to specify the Dockerfile location  
`.` is the context the


---

### Docker Cache
Docker will only rebuild layers that changed from the first change. For example 

```Dockerfile
FROM python:3.9

WORKDIR /app

COPY python/hello_world ./hello_world

RUN hello_world/requirements.txt

EXPOSE 9000

CMD["python", "hello_world/main.py"]
```

If I change the hello world application in my host machine and rerun docker build it will rerun everything from COPY. 

But somethings take long to build that we haven't changed like requirements.txt

To take advantage of docker cache we can copy the requirements first and then copy everything else after for example


```Dockerfile
FROM python:3.9

WORKDIR /app

COPY python/hello_world/requirements.txt ./hello_world/requirements.txt

RUN hello_world/requirements.txt

COPY python/hello_world ./hello_world


EXPOSE 9000

CMD["python", "hello_world/main.py"]
```

---

