# Running the image
### Running it on Desktop application
To run the image you could use the desktop application and just click on run. 

Make sure that you click on optional setting and map the port. This will map your localhost port to the docker port exposed. You can add name if you want.

### Running the image using CLI

This is usually the better way as you get more customization 

Firstly to run the image you need to know the image name, this is what you set up with the `-t` tag if you don't remember it you can use: 

`docker images` to view all the available images 

then you can run it by typing

`docker run image_name`

this will leave you terminal hanging meaning you can't use it unless you close the docker container. 

To stop this you can use the `-d` flag

so : 
`docker run -d image_name`

you can also specific the version by typing: 

`docker run -d image_name:latest`

To name the container you can add `--name`


To remap the port you need to add the -p tag
`docker run --name hello -d -p 900:5000 image_name`

900 is the host port
5000 is the containerport

### Stopping the docker container

To view all the running docker containers, type:
`docker ps`

To view all the docker containers, (running and not running) type

`docker ps -a`

to stop the container you can type:
`docker stop name`


### Start a stopped container
To start a stopped container you type:
`docker start name`

### Enter into the docker container
To enter into the docker container from the terminal, type: 
`docker exec -it {name} {shell}`

where 
`name` is the docker container name
`shell` is the shell usually bash

so: 
`docker exec -it example_cont bash`


### Keep Container running

Docker container automatically stops after it has finished running everything, but sometimes you want to go inside the docker container and see what is under the hood. \
Maybe you want to run a script through docker?

To do this we need to create an infinite loop 

```
docker run -d --name container_name image_name tail -f /dev/null
```

`tail` is a tool that outputs the last part of files. When used with the `-f` option, it continuously outputs appended data as the file grows. `/dev/null` is a special file in Unix that discards all data written to it. So , `tail -f /dev/null` essentially tells `tail` to continuously look for new data in a file that never changes (since `/dev/null` doesn't actually store any data).

Since `tail -f /dev/null` doesn't produce any output or terminate by itself, it effectively keeps the container running in the background. 


You can do the same thing in the Docker Image by using up the ENTRYPOINT 

```
ENTRYPOINT ["tail"]
CMD ["-f","/dev/null"]
```


---
